\documentclass[12pt,]{article}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{mathspec}
    \usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
  \else
    \usepackage{fontspec}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \newcommand{\euro}{€}
\fi
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{%
\usepackage{microtype}
\UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
\ifxetex
  \usepackage[setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
              unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
              xetex]{hyperref}
\else
  \usepackage[unicode=true]{hyperref}
\fi
\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
            bookmarks=true,
            pdfauthor={Guilherme Garcia1,2, Thiago Zahn1, Felipe Bandoni de Oliveira1 \& Gabriel Marroig1},
            pdftitle={The Evolution of Skull Allometry in Anthropoid Primates},
            colorlinks=true,
            citecolor=blue,
            urlcolor=blue,
            linkcolor=magenta,
            pdfborder={0 0 0}}
\urlstyle{same}  % don't use monospace font for urls
\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{0}

%%% Use protect on footnotes to avoid problems with footnotes in titles
\let\rmarkdownfootnote\footnote%
\def\footnote{\protect\rmarkdownfootnote}

%%% Change title format to be more compact
\usepackage{titling}

% Create subtitle command for use in maketitle
\newcommand{\subtitle}[1]{
  \posttitle{
    \begin{center}\large#1\end{center}
    }
}

\setlength{\droptitle}{-2em}
  \title{The Evolution of Skull Allometry in Anthropoid Primates}
  \pretitle{\vspace{\droptitle}\centering\huge}
  \posttitle{\par}
  \author{Guilherme Garcia\textsuperscript{1,2}, Thiago Zahn\textsuperscript{1},
Felipe Bandoni de Oliveira\textsuperscript{1} \& Gabriel
Marroig\textsuperscript{1}}
  \preauthor{\centering\large\emph}
  \postauthor{\par}
  \predate{\centering\large\emph}
  \postdate{\par}
  \date{08 October 2015}

%--- USEPACKAGES ---
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{natbib}
\usepackage[brazilian,english]{babel}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage{subfigure, epsfig}
\usepackage{ae}
\usepackage{aecompl}
\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{graphicx,wrapfig} % para incluir figuras
\usepackage{amsfonts, amssymb,amsthm, amsmath, amscd} % pacote AMS
\usepackage{color, bbm, multicol}
\usepackage{verbatim, listings, booktabs}
\usepackage{fancyhdr} % FANCYHEADER
\usepackage{setspace}
\usepackage{times} % bookman,palatino,courier,times FONTES
\usepackage{lineno}
\usepackage{url}
\usepackage{rotating}
\usepackage{longtable}
% \usepackage{rotfloat}
% \usepackage{appendix}
\usepackage{mathptmx}
% \usepackage{cmbright}
% \usepackage[adobe-utopia]{mathdesign}
\usepackage[flushleft]{threeparttable}
\usepackage{multirow}
% \usepackage{float}
\usepackage {tocvsec2} % controlar profundidade de table of contents
\setcounter {secnumdepth}{0}
\usepackage {caption}
\usepackage {tabularx}
\usepackage {floatrow}
\floatsetup[table]{capposition=top}

\usepackage{mathpazo} % fonte palatino

\newcommand{\barra}{\backslash}
\newcommand{\To}{\longrightarrow}
\newcommand{\abs}[1]{\left\vert#1\right\vert}
\newcommand{\set}[1]{\left\{#1\right\}}
\newcommand{\seq}[1]{\left<#1\right>}
\newcommand{\norma}[1]{\left\Vert#1\right\Vert}
\newcommand{\hr}{\par\noindent\hrulefill\par}

\usepackage {xr}
\externaldocument{sup_allo}

\selectlanguage{english}

\hypersetup{colorlinks=false}


\begin{document}

\maketitle


\linenumbers
\modulolinenumbers[2]

\onehalfspacing

\textsuperscript{1}Laboratório de Evolução de Mamíferos, Departamento de
Genética e Biologia Evolutiva, Instituto de Biociências, Universidade de
São Paulo, CP 11.461, CEP 05422-970, São Paulo, Brasil

\textsuperscript{2}\href{mailto:wgar@usp.br}{wgar@usp.br}

running title: Allometry in Anthropoids

key words:

\section{Abstract}\label{abstract}

Anthropoid Primates display an impressive body size variation, which
implies many morphological, ecological and physiological differences
among species in this group. These allometric relationships may impose
restrictions on phenotypic evolution; for instance, most of the skull
shape morphological diversity in Anthropoids is regarded as an indirect
consequence of body size evolution, except within Hominids. In the
present work, we tested whether allometric relationships for skull shape
in Anthropoids have remained stable during the diversification of this
group and also examined the association between these relationships and
integration patterns. We show that allometric intercepts have changed a
number of times, mostly within New World Monkeys, and that slopes have
changed significantly only within Hominidae, in two independent
instances, \emph{Homo} and \emph{Gorilla}. Furthermore, the variation in
allometric slopes contributes to Facial and Neurocranial integration in
opposing directions. Thus, the constancy of allometric slopes we
observed seems to be related to the maintenance of functional
interactions during development imposed by stabilizing selection, so
that the few changes in slopes may be associated with shifts in the
adaptive landscape in the course of Hominid diversification.

\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}

Anthropoid primates display an approximately thousand-fold variation of
body sizes, from pygmy marmosets ($\sim 110g$) to lowland gorillas
($\sim 120kg$). This astonishing size diversity implies substantial
morphological, physiological and ecological differences among these
organisms, since changes in body size fundamentally affect how living
organisms interact with their environments (Gould, 1966; West \emph{et
al.}, 1997). These differential scaling relationships between organismal
traits and body size are referred to as allometry (Huxley, 1932; Gould,
1966; Cheverud, 1982; Lande, 1985) and may be represented as power laws,
which become linear on a log-log scale (Huxley, 1932; but see Nijhout \&
German, 2012). Allometry may thus be represented by two parameters:
(allometric) slopes and intercepts.

Allometry may act as a constraint, diverting evolutionary trajectories
in natural populations (Gould \& Lewontin, 1979; Lande, 1979; Schluter,
1996). For example, selection for body size driven by shifts in feeding
habits has dominated diversification in New World monkeys, and
differences in skull morphology among species in this group appear to be
merely an indirect consequence of the allometric relationships between
skull traits and body size (Marroig \& Cheverud, 2005, 2010; Marroig
\emph{et al.}, 2012); within Old World Monkeys, the same scenario can
explain skull morphological diversity in Cercopithecids (Cardini
\emph{et al.}, 2007; Cardini \& Elton, 2008). Regarding Hominids,
selection for reduction of facial elements and increased neurocranial
capacity has played a limited role in the divergence between \emph{Homo}
and \emph{Australopithecus} (Ackermann \& Cheverud, 2004; Schroeder
\emph{et al.}, 2014).

Regarding morphological traits, allometric slopes may be constrained
throughout development due to stabilizing selection (Lande, 1980;
Cheverud, 1984, 1996a; Hansen, 2011; Zelditch \& Swiderski, 2011), while
intercepts may be more labile on an evolutionary scale (Gould, 1974;
Egset \emph{et al.}, 2012; Bolstad \emph{et al.}, 2015). However, these
parameters are dependant upon the mean individual growth rate and the
covariance between these growth rates and body size achieved at
adulthood; thus, selection on body size may also change allometric
slopes (Pélabon \emph{et al.}, 2013; Voje \emph{et al.}, 2013).
Experimental evidence on the evolution of allometric relationships has
accumulated, indicating that growth parameters harbor genetic variation
and thus may be available to selection, an effect that will then cascade
to populational allometric relationships (e.g. Frankino \emph{et al.},
2005; Tobler \& Nijhout, 2010; Egset \emph{et al.}, 2012; Bolstad
\emph{et al.}, 2015), although methodological issues may hamper some of
this evidence (Houle \emph{et al.}, 2011; Voje \emph{et al.}, 2013).
Therefore, whether and to which extent allometric slopes can evolve
remain as open questions.

In the present work, we investigate the relationship between skull size
and shape in a phylogenetic framework using Anthropoid Primates as model
organisms. We focus on testing whether and to which proportion
intercepts and slopes have changed during the diversification of this
group. Moreover, integration patterns in skull form are quite stable in
both New World (Marroig \& Cheverud, 2001) and Old World Monkeys, with
some exceptions (Oliveira \emph{et al.}, 2009). Several authors have
argued that allometric constraints contribute to integration patterns
(e.g. Porto \emph{et al.}, 2009; Armbruster \emph{et al.}, 2014), but
this association has never been formalized. Thus, we test the hypothesis
that variation in allometric parameters, if present, will contribute to
variation in the strength of association between skull traits.
Considering both the spatial and temporal dynamics of mammalian skull
development (Zelditch \& Carmichael, 1989; Hallgrímsson \emph{et al.},
2009; Cardini \& Polly, 2013), we expect that such changes will affect
Facial and Neurocranial traits in opposing ways, due to the distinction
between early- and late-developmental factors in skull development.

Using a Bayesian phylogenetic random regression model of allometric
shape against size, we estimate allometric parameters along the
phylogeny of Anthropoidea. We show that allometric slopes have remained
quite stable throughout Anthropoid diversification, while intercepts
have changed in several groups, and that the little variation associated
with allometric slopes produces opposite changes in Facial and
Neurocranial integration, providing a clear link between allometry and
integration. Despite the general stability in allometric slopes, we find
remarkable changes occurring in \emph{Homo} and \emph{Gorilla},
demonstrating that constraints imposed by allometry are in no way
absolute and, in some situations, may be overcome.

\section{Results}\label{results}

We used the Common Allometric Component (CAC; Mitteroecker \emph{et
al.}, 2004), which represents a pooled estimate of skull shape allometry
(represented as local shape variables; Márquez \emph{et al.}, 2012) as a
proxy for the ancestral allometric relationships for Anthropoid
Primates. This axis is associated with positive loadings for Facial
traits and negative loadings for Neurocranial traits, thus representing
a contrast between these regional sets (\autoref{fig:cac_logCS}a).

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics{Figures/cac_logCS-1.pdf}
\caption{\textbf{Allometric shape variation.} (a) Shape variation
associated with the Common Allometric Component (CAC). (b) Random
regression of projections on the CAC over log Centroid Size. A
regression line is adjusted for each species, and dots represent their
mean values. \label{fig:cac_logCS}}
\end{figure}

To investigate whether species deviate from such ancestral
relationships, we carried out a Bayesian mixed model, considering that
slopes and intercepts for the regression between individuals projected
over the CAC and log Centroid Size (logCS) within each species
(\autoref{fig:cac_logCS}b) are codependent upon their phylogenetic
relationships. The posterior distribution of deviations from mean for
both parameters estimated in this manner (\autoref{fig:phylo_W})
indicates that intercepts deviate from the mean in at least seven
lineages: increases occur in \emph{Pithecia} and \emph{Callicebus}
within Pitheciids, in the clade composed of Callithrichinae and Aotinae,
and in \emph{Alouatta} within Atelids, while lower intercepts are found
in the clade composed of \emph{Homo} and \emph{Pan} within Hominidae, in
\emph{Hylobates} within Hylobatids, and also in \emph{Ateles} within
Atelids (\autoref{fig:phylo_W}a). Allometric slopes for terminals, on
the other hand, deviate from the mean in only three species: \emph{Homo
sapiens} and both representatives of \emph{Gorilla}, all with slopes
shallower than the mean (\autoref{fig:phylo_W}b).

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics{Figures/phylo_new-1.pdf}
\caption{\textbf{Deviations from ancestral allometry.} (a) Intercepts;
(b) Slopes. Asterisks indicate whether a given deviation is distinct
from zero, considering 95\% credible intervals. \label{fig:phylo_W}}
\end{figure}

The association between allometric parameters and modularity was
measured using regression models of Modularity Hypothesis Indexes (MHI;
Porto \emph{et al.}, 2013) for two regions (Face and Neurocranium) and
three sub-regions within each region (Oral, Nasal and Zygomatic in the
Face; Orbit, Vault and Basicranium in the Neurocranium) on the estimated
allometric parameters. Model selection using Deviance Information
Criteria (DIC; Gelman \emph{et al.}, 2004) shows that models considering
only the intercept always have the worst fit. In most cases, models
including only the slope are better than or equal ($\Delta DIC < 2$) to
models with both parameters (intercept and slope), suggesting a
negligible effect of the intercept. For the Neurocranium region and the
Vault sub-region, the model including intercept and slope shows a better
fit than the slope-only model; in both cases, however, the effects of
the intercept are not significant when one takes into account the
posterior distribution of the regression coefficients (results not
shown). We thus consider that the models including only allometric
slopes provide the best representation of the association between
allometric parameters and modularity indexes
(\autoref{tab:dic_allo_im}). It should be noted that none of the models
tested for the Orbit and Basicranium sub-regions show any association
between allometric parameters and Modularity Indexes, therefore these
sub-regions were not included in the model selection. Allometric slopes
show opposite effects on MHI values for Face and Neurocranium
(\autoref{fig:MI_vs_slopeW_main}), and, with the exception of the Orbit
and Basicranium, sub-regions follow the same pattern as the more
inclusive partition in which they are contained
(\autoref{fig:MI_vs_slopeW_si}).

\begin{figure}[htbp]
\centering
\includegraphics{Figures/MI_vs_slopeW_main-1.pdf}
\caption{\textbf{Allometry and modularity.} Modularity Hypothesis Index
(MHI) regressed over allometric slope deviations ($b_s$). For each
global trait set (Face and Neurocranium), the shaded region around
regression lines indicate 95\% credible intervals around estimated
regression parameters. \label{fig:MI_vs_slopeW_main}}
\end{figure}

\section{Discussion}\label{discussion}

The hypothesis that allometry may act as a constraint, deflecting
changes in morphological, physiological and other organismal aspects
along a size-trait gradient (e.g. Gould, 1974) has historically been
confronted with the opposing view that allometry may be in fact much
more dynamic and evolvable (e.g. Kodric-Brown \emph{et al.}, 2006;
Bonduriansky, 2007; Frankino \emph{et al.}, 2009). As recently stated by
some authors (Voje \emph{et al.}, 2013; Pélabon \emph{et al.}, 2014),
this seeming paradox may in large part owe its existence to different
meanings for allometry: one related to any monotonic relationship
between variables, while the other specifically deals with power-law
relationships between variables as defined by Huxley (1932). This
imprecision of definition greatly hampers evidence in favor of a dynamic
interpretation of allometry; considering the few studies estimating
evolvability of narrow-sense allometry, only two demonstrate changes in
allometric slopes (Tobler \& Nijhout, 2010; Bolstad \emph{et al.},
2015).

The results we obtained from the phylogenetic random regression model
indicate that substantial changes have occurred on intercepts,
especially in New World Monkeys (\autoref{fig:phylo_W}a). As we
expected, the role of natural selection on the evolution of body size in
this group (Marroig \& Cheverud, 2005, 2010; Marroig \emph{et al.},
2012) can be related to some of these changes. For example, in the
lineage composed of Callithrichines and \emph{Aotus}, selection for
reduced body size is pervasive, and it has been associated with shifts
in pre-natal growth rates, considering a maintenance in relative
gestation lengths with respect to their sizes (Marroig \& Cheverud,
2009); such change in the timing of developmental events may be
responsible for the changes in intercepts we observe in tamarins,
marmosets and owl monkeys. For Atelids, while selection for increased
body size has played a role in the differentiation between this lineage
and its sister group Cebidae, the shifts in allometric intercepts
occurred within this clade in two different lineages, and in opposing
directions. It is also noteworthy that, in some lineages of New World
Monkeys, selection for changes in body size did not affect intercepts or
slopes at all; for instance, selection for increased body size in
\emph{Cebus} (Marroig \emph{et al.}, 2012) produced only a correlated
response on skull shape, along the same allometric relationships
observed in its sister genus \emph{Saimiri} (Marroig, 2007). The
converse is also true: while saki monkeys (\emph{Pithecia}) show
increased intercepts, this group has diversified mostly as a consequence
of drift, at least with respect to skull morphology (Marroig \&
Cheverud, 2004).

We have detected significant divergence in allometric slopes in only two
lineages, \emph{Homo} and \emph{Gorilla}, although some changes may also
have occurred in other lineages such as \emph{Alouatta} and
\emph{Callithrix} (\autoref{fig:phylo_W}b). Even though \emph{Homo} and
\emph{Gorilla} are closely related and exhibit slopes that are shallower
than remaining Anthropoids, such slopes represent two distinct patterns
of ontogenetic trajectories. While for \emph{Gorilla} this change mostly
represents an increase in neurocranial capacity near the end of their
trajectory, for \emph{Homo} it represents deviations occurring since the
beginning of post-natal growth in both Facial and Neurocranial traits
(Mitteroecker \& Bookstein, 2008), which results in a dissociation
between skull shape and size in this lineage, when compared to other
Hominoids.

Considering that the early evolution of \emph{Homo} has involved
directional selection for both increased neurocranial capacity and
reduced facial elements at least in its initial stages of
diversification (Ackermann \& Cheverud, 2004; Schroeder \emph{et al.},
2014) and given the ancestral allometric relationships for Anthropoids
(CAC; \autoref{fig:cac_logCS}a), this pattern of selection would produce
a correlated response for reduction in skull size (Lande, 1979). Thus,
since skull size for \emph{Homo} is comparable to its sister lineages
(\autoref{fig:cac_logCS}b), the shift in allometric relationships on the
former may be indicative of a joint effect of directional selection for
reduction of the average CAC value and stabilizing selection on skull
size, given that the changes in allometric slopes we observe in
\emph{Homo} may be the result of shifts in the relationship between size
and shape in the adaptive landscape for this lineage (Jones, 2007;
Arnold \emph{et al.}, 2008; Jones \emph{et al.}, 2012; Melo \& Marroig,
2015), which may result in changes in pleiotropic effects mediated by
epistatic interactions (Pavlicev \emph{et al.}, 2008, 2011).

Concurrently, these changes in \emph{Homo} may also be the result of
changes in the environmental effects for both Facial and Neurocranial
traits, since part of the integration observed in both regions can be
attributed to the effect of post-natal muscular activity on bone growth,
induced by masticatory loadings (Hallgrímsson \& Lieberman, 2008;
Zelditch \emph{et al.}, 2009; Herring, 2011). Given that the act of
processing and cooking meals may already have produced changes in
physiological aspects of food intake in humans (Wrangham \&
Conklin-Brittain, 2003), this cultural aspect of our ecology may also
contribute to shallower allometric relationships, since food processing
and cooking reduces masticatory loadings associated with its intake.

Shifts in allometric slopes throughout Anthropoid diversification imply
changes in the strength of association between Facial and Neurocranial
traits, in opposing directions (\autoref{fig:MI_vs_slopeW_main}). Thus,
although the distinction between these two regions is the by-product of
developmental interactions since the initial steps of skull ontogeny
(Hallgrímsson \& Lieberman, 2008), allometric relationships reinforce
the effect of such interactions due to the induction of facial growth by
muscular activity from weaning to adulthood (Zelditch \emph{et al.},
1992, 2009), since post-natal growth represents a great portion of body
size variation observed in this group. Hence, groups with steeper
slopes, such as \emph{Ateles} and \emph{Alouatta}, exhibit strong Facial
integration and lower Neurocranial integration, while groups with
shallower slopes, such as Callithrichines, \emph{Homo}, and
\emph{Gorilla}, exhibit similar integration values for both regions,
indicating that the restriction over allometric relationships may be
associated with the maintenance of the functional interactions among
skull traits. Although the bulk of this effect over phenotypic variation
may have an environmental origin (Cheverud, 1982), muscular activity is
necessary for the proper development of osteological elements (Herring,
2011), thus indicating that even though such functional interactions are
dependent on the environment, they are canalized through skull ontogeny
in a predictable manner, since developmental systems themselves are
under selection for robustness and replicability (Wagner \& Altenberg,
1996; Hansen, 2011; Pavlicev \& Hansen, 2011), exhibiting behaviors
similar to machine learning algorithms (Watson \emph{et al.}, 2013).

Here, we demonstrated under a comparative framework that allometric
intercepts are more labile than slopes in a macroevolutionary scale and
also provided a clear link between allometric relationships and
morphological integration in Anthropoid Primates. The consistence of
allometric slopes through Anthropoid diversification and the remarkable
changes in \emph{Homo} and \emph{Gorilla} therefore provide novel
evidence showing that allometric slopes may represent an important
constraint for mammals, but one that is not absolute and may be overcome
in particular situations. The approach we used here to estimate
allometric parameters benefits from properly separating variation within
and among populations, considering the interdependence arising from
phylogenetic relatedness simultaneously; for instance, the same approach
could be used to evaluate variation in allometric parameters between
individuals in a population whose genealogy is available, enabling us to
quantify the influence of both genetic and environmental factors over
these parameters. In fact, given the availability of a strong
theoretical background relating allometries defined at different levels
of biological organization (Pélabon \emph{et al.}, 2013), further work
in understanding the genetic basis of variation in allometry and how
developmental systems interact with such variation may be critical to
fully characterize the conditions in which this feature evolves.

\section{Methods}\label{methods}

\subsection{Sample}\label{sample}

Our database consists of 5108 individuals, distributed across 109
species. These species are spread throughout all major Anthropoid clades
above the genus level, also comprising all Platyrrhini genera and a
substantial portion of Catarrhini genera. We associated this database
with an ultrametric phylogenetic hypothesis for Anthropoidea (Figure
\ref{fig:phylo_model}), derived from Springer et al. (2012).

Individuals in our sample are represented by 36 registered landmarks,
using a Polhemus 3Draw and a Microscribe 3DS for Platyrrhini and
Catarrhini, respectively. Twenty-two unique landmarks represent each
individual (Figure \ref{fig:landmarks}), since fourteen of the 36
registered landmarks are bilaterally symmetrical. For more details on
landmark registration, see Marroig \& Cheverud (2001) and Oliveira et
al. (2009). Databases from both previous studies were merged into a
single database, retaining only those individuals in which all
landmarks, from both sides, were present.

This database of landmark registration data was used to estimate both
interlandmark distances and shape variables. For interlandmark
distances, those measurements that involve bilaterally symmetrical
landmarks were averaged after computing distances; for shape variables,
a symmetrical landmark configuration was obtained by taking the mean
shape between each individual configuration and its reflection along the
sagittal plane (Klingenberg \emph{et al.}, 2002).

\subsection{Allometric Slopes and
Intercepts}\label{allometric-slopes-and-intercepts}

We estimated allometric parameters using local shape variables (Márquez
\emph{et al.}, 2012), which are measurements of infinitesimal log volume
transformations, calculated as the natural logarithm determinants of
derivatives of the TPS function between each individual in our sample
and a reference shape (in our case, the mean shape for the entire
sample, estimated from a Generalized Procrustes algorithm). Such
derivatives were evaluated at 38 locations, the midpoints between pairs
of landmarks connected in \autoref{fig:landmarks}. After estimating
local shape variables, we controlled for sources of variation of little
interest in the present context, such as sexual dimorphism, and
variation between subspecies or populations within each OTU, according
to Figure \ref{fig:phylo_model}, using generalized linear models.

We used a phylogenetic random regression model under a Bayesian
framework in order to estimate static (within populations; Cheverud,
1982; Pélabon \emph{et al.}, 2013) allometric intercepts ($a_s$) and
slopes ($b_s$) for all OTUs simultaneously while considering their
phylogenetic structure. This model assumes that both $a_s$ and $b_s$
evolve under Brownian motion, as both parameters are defined as random
variables with a correlation structure among OTUs derived from branch
lengths obtained from the phylogenetic hypothesis we use. This allows
the model to estimate $a_s$ and $b_s$ for each terminal OTU and also for
ancestral nodes, enabling us to track changes in both parameters along
the phylogeny.

We projected all individuals in our sample along the Common Allometric
Component (CAC; Mitteroecker \emph{et al.}, 2004), which is the pooled
within-species regression coefficients between local shape variables and
log Centroid Size (logCS). The CAC summarizes all allometric shape
variation, and we regress this single variable against logCS in our
random regression model. This reduction in dimensionality is necessary
because a full multivariate random regression model using all 38 shape
variables would be computationally untractable, considering the actual
state of MCMC samplers available. Therefore, we limit ourselves to test
whether the strength of association between size and allometric shape,
represented by projections over this CAC (which we consider the best
representation of the ancestral allometric shape variation) has changed
during the diversification of Anthropoid Primates.

We used uniform prior distributions for all $a_s$ and $b_s$. In order to
sample the posterior distribution for our model, we used a MCMC sampler
with $250000$ iterations, comprising a burnin period of $50000$
iterations and a thinning interval of $200$ iterations after burnin to
avoid autocorrelations in the posterior sample, thus generating $1000$
posterior samples for all parameters we estimate. We performed a handful
of runs with different starting values and pseudo-random number
generator seeds to ensure convergence; with these values for iteration
steps, we achieved convergence in all MCMC runs.

Using these posterior samples for static allometric parameters, we
tested whether a given intercept or slope in any node of the tree
(terminal or ancestral) deviates from the values estimated for the root
of the tree by computing 95\% credible intervals for the difference
between the parameter estimated at both points. If this interval
excludes the null value, we considered that as evidence that the
parameter ($a_s$ or $b_s$) has changed in that particular node.

\subsection{Morphological Integration and
Modularity}\label{morphological-integration-and-modularity}

Using our landmark configuration database, we calculated 38
interlandmark distances (\autoref{fig:landmarks}), based on previous
works on mammalian covariance patterns (Cheverud, 1995, 1996b; Marroig
\& Cheverud, 2001; Oliveira \emph{et al.}, 2009). Within each OTU, we
estimated and removed fixed effects of little interest within the
present context using generalized linear models (Figure
\ref{fig:phylo_model}). Using residuals from each model, we estimated
covariance and correlation $P$-matrices for all OTUs.

In order to represent modularity patterns embedded in these
$P$-matrices, we used Modularity Hypothesis Indexes (MHI; Porto \emph{et
al.}, 2013), which are scale-free measurements of variational
modularity; we estimated MHIs for each trait subset depicted in
\autoref{tab:dist} for all 109 $P$-matrices. We estimated MHI values
using the equation \[
MHI = \frac {\bar{\rho}_{+} - \bar{\rho}_{-}} {ICV}
\] where $\bar{\rho}_{+}$ represents the average correlation within a
given subset, $\bar{\rho}_{-}$ represents the average correlation of the
complementary set, and $ICV$ is the coefficient of variation of
eigenvalues of the associated covariance matrix, which is a measurement
of the overall integration between all traits (Shirai \& Marroig, 2010).

We estimated the relationship between MHIs and static allometric
parameters using phylogenetic mixed linear models; we adjusted such
models separately for each trait subset, using MHI values as response
variables and allometric parameters as predictors. We also use a
Bayesian framework to estimate such models. In order to evaluate which
parameters are sufficient to explain variation in MHI values, we
adjusted three different models: one for static intercepts alone
($a_s$), one for static slopes ($b_s$), and a third model that considers
the joint effect of both parameters, without interactions ($a_s$ +
$b_s$). We compared these three models using the Deviance Information
Criterion (DIC; Gelman \emph{et al.}, 2004), which increases as a
function of the average posterior likelihood for a particular model and
decreases as a function of the number of parameters considered; in a
equivalent manner to Akaike's (1974) Information Criterion, the model
with the smallest DIC is considered the best fit; models whose
difference in DICs is lower than two are considered equivalent.

\subsection{Software}\label{software}

All analysis were performed under R 3.2.2 (R Core Team, 2015). Our code
for the estimation of local shape variables can be found at
\url{http://github.com/wgar84}. We performed MCMC sampling for all
models using the MCMCglmm package in R (Hadfield, 2010). In order to
obtain symmetrical landmarks configurations, we used code provided by
Annat Haber, available at
\url{http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/morph/soft-R.html}.

\section*{References}\label{references}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{References}

Ackermann, R.R. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2004. Detecting genetic drift versus
selection in human evolution. \emph{Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences of the United States of America} \textbf{101}: 17946--17951.

Akaike, H. 1974. A new look at the statistical model identification.
\emph{IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control} \textbf{19}: 716--723.

Armbruster, W.S., Pélabon, C., Bolstad, G.H. \& Hansen, T.F. 2014.
Integrated phenotypes: understanding trait covariation in plants and
animals. \emph{Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London
B: Biological Sciences} \textbf{369}: 20130245.

Arnold, S.J., Bürger, R., Hohenlohe, P.A., Ajie, B.C. \& Jones, A.G.
2008. Understanding the evolution and stability of the G-matrix.
\emph{Evolution} \textbf{62}: 2451--2461.

Bolstad, G.H., Cassara, J.A., Márquez, E., Hansen, T.F., Linde, K. van
der \& Houle, D.\emph{et al.} 2015. Complex constraints on allometry
revealed by artificial selection on the wing of Drosophila melanogaster.
\emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences} 201505357.

Bonduriansky, R. 2007. Sexual Selection and Allometry: A Critical
Reappraisal of the Evidence and Ideas. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{61}:
838--849.

Cardini, A. \& Elton, S. 2008. Variation in guenon skulls (I): species
divergence, ecological and genetic differences. \emph{Journal of Human
Evolution} \textbf{54}: 615--637.

Cardini, A. \& Polly, P.D. 2013. Larger mammals have longer faces
because of size-related constraints on skull form. \emph{Nature
Communications} \textbf{4}.

Cardini, A., Jansson, A.-U. \& Elton, S. 2007. A geometric morphometric
approach to the study of ecogeographical and clinal variation in vervet
monkeys. \emph{Journal of Biogeography} \textbf{34}: 1663--1678.

Cheverud, J.M. 1996a. Developmental integration and the evolution of
pleiotropy. \emph{American Zoology} \textbf{36}: 44--50.

Cheverud, J.M. 1995. Morphological integration in the saddle-back
tamarin (Saguinus fuscicollis) cranium. \emph{American Naturalist}
\textbf{145}: 63--89.

Cheverud, J.M. 1996b. Quantitative genetic analysis of cranial
morphology in the cotton-top (Saguinus oedipus) and saddle-back (S.
fuscicollis) tamarins. \emph{Journal of Evolutionary Biology}
\textbf{9}: 5--42.

Cheverud, J.M. 1984. Quantitative genetics and developmental constraints
on evolution by selection. \emph{Journal of Theoretical Biology}
\textbf{110}: 155--172.

Cheverud, J.M. 1982. Relationships among ontogenetic, static, and
evolutionary allometry. \emph{American Journal of Physical Anthropology}
\textbf{59}: 139--149.

Egset, C.K., Hansen, T.F., Le Rouzic, A., Bolstad, G.H., Rosenqvist, G.
\& Pélabon, C. 2012. Artificial selection on allometry: change in
elevation but not slope. \emph{Journal of Evolutionary Biology}
\textbf{25}: 938--948.

Frankino, W.A., Emlen, D.J. \& Shingleton, A.W. 2009. Experimental
approaches to studying the evolution of animal form. In:
\emph{Experimental evolution: concepts, methods, and applications of
selection experiments} (T. Garland Jr. \& M. R. Rose, eds), pp.
419--478.

Frankino, W.A., Zwaan, B.J., Stern, D.L. \& Brakefield, P.M. 2005.
Natural Selection and Developmental Constraints in the Evolution of
Allometries. \emph{Science} \textbf{307}: 718--720.

Gelman, A., Carlin, J.B., Stern, H.S. \& Rubin, D.B. 2004.
\emph{Bayesian data analysis}, 2ª ed. CRC Press, New York.

Gould, S.J. 1966. Allometry and Size in Ontogeny and Phylogeny.
\emph{Biological Reviews} \textbf{41}: 587--638.

Gould, S.J. 1974. Allometry in primates, with emphasis on scaling and
the evolution of the brain. \emph{Contributions to primatology}
\textbf{5}: 244--292.

Gould, S.J. \& Lewontin, R.C. 1979. The spandrels of San Marco and the
Panglossian paradigm: a critique of the adaptationist programme.
\emph{Proceedings of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences}
\textbf{205}: 581--598.

Hadfield, J.D. 2010. MCMC Methods for Multi-Response Generalized Linear
Mixed Models: The \{MCMCglmm\} \{R\} Package. \emph{Journa of
Statistical Software} \textbf{33}: 1--22.

Hallgrímsson, B. \& Lieberman, D.E. 2008. Mouse models and the
evolutionary developmental biology of the skull. \emph{Integrative and
Comparative Biology} \textbf{48}: 373--384.

Hallgrímsson, B., Jamniczky, H., Young, N.M., Rolian, C., Parsons, T.E.
\& Boughner, J.C.\emph{et al.} 2009. Deciphering the Palimpsest:
Studying the Relationship Between Morphological Integration and
Phenotypic Covariation. \emph{Evolutionary Biology} \textbf{36}:
355--376.

Hansen, T.F. 2011. Epigenetics: adaptation or contingency. In:
\emph{Epigenetics: linking genotype and phenotype in development and
evolution} (B. Hallgrímsson \& B. K. Hall, eds), pp. 357--376.

Herring, S.W. 2011. Muscle-Bone Interactions and the Development of
Skeletal Phenotype. In: \emph{Epigenetics: Linking Genotype and
Phenotype in Development andEvolution} (B. Hallgrímsson \& B. K. Hall,
eds), pp. 221--237. University of California Press.

Houle, D., Pélabon, C., Wagner, G.P. \& Hansen, T.F. 2011. Measurement
and Meaning In Biology. \emph{The Quartely Review of Biology}
\textbf{86}: 3--34.

Huxley, J.S. 1932. \emph{Problems of relative growth}.

Jones, A.G. 2007. The mutation matrix and the evolution of evolvability.
\emph{Evolution} \textbf{61}: 727--745.

Jones, A.G., Bürger, R., Arnold, S.J., Hohenlohe, P.A. \& Uyeda, J.C.
2012. The effects of stochastic and episodic movement of the optimum on
the evolution of the G-matrix and the response of the trait mean to
selection. \emph{Journal of evolutionary biology} 1--22.

Klingenberg, C.P., Barluenga, M. \& Meyer, A. 2002. Shape analysis of
symmetric structures: Quantifying variation among individuals and
asymmetry. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{56}: 1909--1920.

Kodric-Brown, A., Sibly, R.M. \& Brown, J.H. 2006. The allometry of
ornaments and weapons. \emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences} \textbf{103}: 8733--8738.

Lande, R. 1985. Genetic and Evolutionary Aspects of Allometry. In:
\emph{Size and Scaling in Primate Biology} (W. L. Jungers, ed), pp.
21--32. Springer US.

Lande, R. 1979. Quantitative genetic analysis of multivariate evolution
applied to brain: body size allometry. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{33}:
402--416.

Lande, R. 1980. The Genetic Covariance Between Characters Maintained by
Pleiotropic Mutations. \emph{Genetics} \textbf{94}: 203--215.

Marroig, G. 2007. When size makes a difference: allometry, life-history
and morphological evolution of capuchins (Cebus) and squirrels (Saimiri)
monkeys (Cebinae, Platyrrhini). \emph{BMC Evolutionary Biology}
\textbf{7}: 20.

Marroig, G. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2001. A comparison of phenotypic variation
and covariation patterns and the role of phylogeny, ecology, and
ontogeny during cranial evolution of new world monkeys. \emph{Evolution}
\textbf{55}: 2576--2600.

Marroig, G. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2004. Cranial evolution in sakis
(Pithecia, Platyrrhini) I: Interspecific differentiation and allometric
patterns. \emph{American Journal of Physical Anthropology} \textbf{125}:
266--278.

Marroig, G. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2009. Size and Shape in Callimico and
Marmoset Skulls: Allometry and Heterochrony in the Morphological
Evolution of Small Anthropoids. In: \emph{The Smallest Anthropoids,
Developments in Primatology: Progress and Prospects} (S. M. Ford, L. M.
Porter, \& L. C. Davis, eds), pp. 331--353. Springer US, Boston.

Marroig, G. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2005. Size as a line of least evolutionary
resistance: Diet and adaptive morphological radiation in new world
monkeys. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{59}: 1128--1142.

Marroig, G. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2010. Size as a line of least resistance
II: direct selection on size or correlated response due to constraints?
\emph{Evolution} \textbf{64}: 1470--1488.

Marroig, G., Melo, D.A.R. \& Garcia, G. 2012. Modularity, Noise and
Natural Selection. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{66}: 1506--1524.

Márquez, E.J., Cabeen, R., Woods, R.P. \& Houle, D. 2012. The
Measurement of Local Variation in Shape. \emph{Evolutionary Biology}
\textbf{39}: 419--439.

Melo, D. \& Marroig, G. 2015. Directional selection can drive the
evolution of modularity in complex traits. \emph{Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences} \textbf{112}: 470--475.

Mitteroecker, P. \& Bookstein, F.L. 2008. The evolutionary role of
modularity and integration in the hominoid cranium. \emph{Evolution}
\textbf{62}: 943--958.

Mitteroecker, P., Gunz, P., Bernhard, M., Bookstein, F.L. \& Schaefer,
K. 2004. Comparison of cranial ontogenetic trajectories among great apes
and humans. \emph{Journal of Human Evolution} \textbf{46}: 679--697.

Nijhout, H.F. \& German, R.Z. 2012. Developmental Causes of Allometry:
New Models and Implications for Phenotypic Plasticity and Evolution.
\emph{Integrative and Comparative Biology} \textbf{52}: 43--52.

Oliveira, F.B., Porto, A. \& Marroig, G. 2009. Covariance structure in
the skull of Catarrhini: a case of pattern stasis and magnitude
evolution. \emph{Journal of Human Evolution} \textbf{56}: 417--430.

Pavlicev, M. \& Hansen, T.F. 2011. Genotype-Phenotype Maps Maximizing
Evolvability: Modularity Revisited. \emph{Evolutionary Biology}
\textbf{38}: 371--389.

Pavlicev, M., Kenney-Hunt, J.P., Norgard, E.A., Roseman, C.C., Wolf,
J.B. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2008. Genetic variation in pleiotropy:
differential epistasis as a source of variation in the allometric
relationship between long bone lengths and body weight. \emph{Evolution}
\textbf{62}: 199--213.

Pavlicev, M., Norgard, E.A., Fawcett, G.L. \& Cheverud, J.M. 2011.
Evolution of pleiotropy: epistatic interaction pattern supports a
mechanistic model underlying variation in genotype-phenotype map.
\emph{Journal of Experimental Zoology B} \textbf{316}: 371--85.

Pélabon, C., Bolstad, G.H., Egset, C.K., Cheverud, J.M., Pavlicev, M. \&
Rosenqvist, G. 2013. On the Relationship between Ontogenetic and Static
Allometry. \emph{The American Naturalist} \textbf{181}: 195--212.

Pélabon, C., Firmat, C., Bolstad, G.H., Voje, K.L., Houle, D. \&
Cassara, J.\emph{et al.} 2014. Evolution of morphological allometry.
\emph{Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences} n/a--n/a.

Porto, A., Oliveira, F.B., Shirai, L.T., Conto, V. de \& Marroig, G.
2009. The evolution of modularity in the mammalian skull I:
morphological integration patterns and magnitudes. \emph{Evolutionary
Biology} \textbf{36}: 118--135.

Porto, A., Shirai, L.T., Oliveira, F.B. de \& Marroig, G. 2013. Size
Variation, Growth Strategies, and the Evolution of Modularity in the
Mammalian Skull. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{67}: 3305--3322.

R Core Team. 2015. \emph{R: A Language and Environment for Statistical
Computing}. R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria.

Schluter, D. 1996. Adaptive radiation along genetic lines of least
resistance. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{50}: 1766--1774.

Schroeder, L., Roseman, C.C., Cheverud, J.M. \& Ackermann, R.R. 2014.
Characterizing the Evolutionary Path(s) to Early Homo. \emph{PLoS ONE}
\textbf{9}: e114307.

Shirai, L.T. \& Marroig, G. 2010. Skull modularity in neotropical
marsupials and monkeys: size variation and evolutionary constraint and
flexibility. \emph{Journal of experimental zoology. Part B, Molecular
and developmental evolution} \textbf{314B}: 663--683.

Springer, M.S., Meredith, R.W., Gatesy, J., Emerling, C.A., Park, J. \&
Rabosky, D.L.\emph{et al.} 2012. Macroevolutionary Dynamics and
Historical Biogeography of Primate Diversification Inferred from a
Species Supermatrix. \emph{PLoS ONE} \textbf{7}: e49521.

Tobler, A. \& Nijhout, H.F. 2010. Developmental constraints on the
evolution of wing-body allometry in Manduca sexta. \emph{Evolution \&
Development} \textbf{12}: 592--600.

Voje, K.L., Hansen, T.F., Egset, C.K., Bolstad, G.H. \& Pélabon, C.
2013. Allometric Constraints and the Evolution of Allometry.
\emph{Evolution} \textbf{68}: 866--885.

Wagner, G.P. \& Altenberg, L. 1996. Perspective: complex adaptations and
the evolution of evolvability. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{50}: 967--976.

Watson, R.A., Wagner, G.P., Pavlicev, M., Weinreich, D.M. \& Mills, R.
2013. The Evolution of Phenotypic Correlations and ``developmental
Memory''. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{67}: 1124--1138.

West, G.B., Brown, J.H. \& Enquist, B.J. 1997. A General Model for the
Origin of Allometric Scaling Laws in Biology. \emph{Science}
\textbf{276}: 122--126.

Wrangham, R. \& Conklin-Brittain, N. 2003. ``Cooking as a biological
trait''. \emph{Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part A: Molecular
\& Integrative Physiology} \textbf{136}: 35--46.

Zelditch, M.L. \& Carmichael, A.C. 1989. Ontogenetic variation in
patterns of developmental and functional integration in skulls of
Sigmodon fulviventer. \emph{Evolution} \textbf{43}: 814--824.

Zelditch, M.L. \& Swiderski, D.L. 2011. Epigenetic interactions: the
developmental route to functional integration. In: \emph{Epigenetics:
linking genotype and phenotype in development and evolution}, pp.
290--316.

Zelditch, M.L., Bookstein, F.L. \& Lundrigan, B.L. 1992. Ontogeny of
integrated skull growth in the cotton rat Sigmodon fulviventer.
\emph{Evolution} \textbf{46}: 1164--1180.

Zelditch, M.L., Wood, A.R. \& Swiderski, D.L. 2009. Building
Developmental Integration into Functional Systems: Function-Induced
Integration of Mandibular Shape. \emph{Evolutionary Biology}
\textbf{36}: 71--87.

\end{document}
